- [Educator] As we get into some of the other topics
of Spring Boot,
the next one we're going to address is Spring Security.
Now implementing security in Spring Boot applications is
a little bit more complex than some
of the other stuff that we've seen.
And that's because well, it's security,
which by its nature tends to be more complex.
But that being said,
Spring Security in a Spring Boot application is about
as straightforward as can be done in the security realm.
In its simplest form,
Spring Security provides HTTP basic auth.
When you bring in the Spring Security starter,
just introducing that gives you basic authentication on all
of your endpoints,
with the exception of some of the commonly ignored ones
that are in the static directory, like JavaScript or CSS.
Now you get basic auth,
but the username and password are actually generated
at startup time, and spit out into the info messages
of the log.
So if you just want to play with security
and added to a project,
you can get the username and password from
those log messages during the startup sequence.
Everything within spring basic security kind
of mixes to different areas.
A majority of it is based on properties.
But some of it is based on the actual configurations
that you implement.
Now, beyond basic authentication, which let's be honest,
very few people are doing basic auth
that are actually writing production systems.
And you do get out
of the box form based authentication as well.
Now there's support for form based authentication has
to be configured in order for it to work.
Now you can take it as far as you want.
And the default implementations rely on in memory username
and passwords, which are not really great
for production systems.
But they at least get you started down the path
of form based authentication.
Full support comes from the web security configure adapter,
and you tie into it an actual user details service
that serves your username and password from a database.
Now, it's important to note real quick
that the Enable web security annotation,
when you turn that on to a web security configure adapter,
turns off basic authentication,
that you've got to work right out of the box.
So it's really the key to making all of this work.
Now, as I mentioned, you can back it with a data store,
or you can use the in memory option.
But the in memory options should really only be used
for demo purposes.
And that's what we're going to do when we get to this example.
Now, one of the things that I love about spring security,
especially with RESTful Web Services,
is out of the box support for OAuth2,
there's a starter project for OAuth2.
And when you bring that in, you have both a server
and a client that you can implement.
And as a matter of fact,
many organizations implement an OAuth server using
the base Spring Boot OAuth server construct.
What we're going to talk about more is on the client side
and using the at enable OAuth2 client annotation
that allows you to tie into an OAuth server.
And it's a powerful construct,
especially when you're doing web service based security.
And using method level annotations to either restrict
or permit access to methods,
which ultimately are service methods exposed
via a rest controller.
Everything within the OAuth2 spec is really annotation based
and property driven.
And you can customize any of it.
So you may have some default behavior
that you want to implement with your OAuth2 server,
you can definitely do that in Spring Boot.
It just takes a little bit of time and research.
But that is all beyond the scope of the basics
of using Spring Security in Spring Boot.
So we'll leave that for spring Spring Security,
which is another course that I have in this library.
Now with OAuth2, you also have the ability
to create a resource server,
which is part of the OAuth2 spec.
So you can get authorization server and a resource server.
And often these two are implemented in the same package.
But again, beyond the scope of this course.
For right now, we're just going to focus on the basics
of using Spring Security in a Spring Boot application.
Now, I do want to take a moment
to note something about passwords, and specifically hashing.
Passwords should always be hashed and never encrypted.
You have no reason to store a recoverable password
for your customers.
They should only be one way hashed.
You can always tell when someone fails on this
when they send you a password reset email
that has your existing password,
SHA-1 and for that matter MD5
for goodness sake should be considered owned
and no longer usable for production systems.
BCrypt is really an industry standard and Spring Boot
and Spring Security provide full support
for the BCrypt libraries.
So when you're doing forms based authentication,
and you're creating passwords,
use BCrypt to hash those passwords
that you store in the database.
Never ever give yourself or a bad actor access
to your customers passwords in an encrypted format,
or rachet a plain text format.
So now that we've kind of built some foundation on
what Spring Security is
and what isn't in a Spring Boot application,
let's jump into a simple implementation.